- Algorithm- how to systemically perform a task. It's a sequence of steps. 
- Some steps can be repeated again and again. Also some steps are done when some condition is checked.

Our focus - 

- Algorithms that manipulate information.
	- Compute numerical functions.
	- Reorganize data - arrange in asc order. 
	- Optimization - find the shortest route. 
	- And many more...
		- play chess, sudoku, correct spelling, etc. 

## Simple GCD

gcd(m,n)

- Largest k such that k divides m and k divides n. For e.g. gcd(8,12) = 4.
- 1 divides every number. 
- At least one common divisor for every m, n.

**Computing gcd**

- List out factor of m.
- list out factor of n.
- Report the largest that appears in both.

- Factors of m must be in between 1 and m.
- Test each number in this range - if it divides m without a reminder, add it to the list. 
- How to compare if a element of one list occurs in another? Simple way - pick one up, check if it appears in 2nd, add that in list of common factors.

Formally - 

- Use fm, fn to list factors of m and n.
- Use cf for list of common factors.
- Return largest (rightmost) value in cf.

Data structure used here - list

## Improving naive gcd

- Why not just scan 1 to max(m,n) instead of 1 to m and 1 to n. 
	- Also add i to fm, if it divides to m and to fn if it divides to n.
- Also, instead of making 2 list, why not just one list of cf, and add i to cf only if it divides to both.
- Also, any common factor will be must be less than min(m,n) . So we can scan between 1 to min(m,n).

This steps can be implemented in python in a much shorter way.

- Do we need a list of cf (common factor) at all? We just need largest common factor, so we can start with 1 and just keep discarding last cf once we get a bigger one.
- Scan backward - instead of starting from starting (1), we can start from end to find largest cf. If we find nothing, it will come to 1 which is a cf always. 

- While in python is used for repetition, specifically because we don't know how many times we will repeat the operation. It repeats until a condition is not fulfilled. 

- Better approaches are still possible, computationally they are roughly the same as time taken is proportional to m and n.

## Euclid's algorithm for gcd

- Suppose d divides both m and n. m > n.
- Then m = ad , n = bd.
- Then m = ad - bd = (a-b)d.
- d divides m-n as well.
- So, gcd(m, n) = gcd(n, m-n).

- Consider gcd(m,n) with m > n.
- If n divides m, return n.
- Otherwise, compute gcd(n,m-n) and return that value.

>> Unable to understand euclid's algo deeply.

- This can be implemented both with a recursion and with a while loop.


Even Better way
- Suppose n does not divide by m. 


>> This lecture need to be seen again.

> Compiler (takes high level language and translates to machine level instruction) vs interpreters (a program that runs and directly understands high level programming languages). Python is by large a interpreted language. 








