- This lecture talks about python basics, like assigning values to python variables, updating existing values ( i =+ 1), int, float, mantissa and exponent in scientific numbers ( 0.602 * 10^7) , arithmetic operations on numbers (division always produces float.
- // and % use: 9//5 = 1 , 9%5 = 4.
-  Exponentiation: ** , math library have functions like- log(), sin(), sqrt(), etc.
- Values have type. In Python names do not have any type, it will take up type of values assigned. 
- Use of type() function. 
- Boolean values, Logical operators - not, and, or
	- not True is False, not False is True.
	- x and y is True means both True.
	- x or y is True means at least one of them happens. 
- Use of = = , != , >= , <= , < , > , combining different operators. 
- We can also use a comparison to make a variable as Boolean data type. For e.g. - a = (m%n == 0).

## String

- Computation is more than crunching numbers. Text processing is important too. For e.g. document preparation, importing exporting spreadsheet data, matching search queries to content. 
- String is used for text in python (str). It is sequence of character. Double, single, triple, etc. quotes are used to assign string. Explain - why different quotes are used.
- \n is used to change line.
- Positions are from 0, 1, 2, ... , n-1 for length of string.
- -1 is used to see last character of string. So do -1, -2, -3 can be used to get character from end.
- Start with 0, end with -1.
- Combine 2 strings - use +
- len() returns length of string.
-  A slice is a segment of string. `s = 'hello' s[1:4]`
- It's syntax goes like `[start, end, jump]`. End is one position before the given position. So say end is 3, it will go till 3 but not include that position.
- Shortcut in slicing: `[:] , [:n]` , etc.
- **Modifying string**: We can not update string in place. Means parts of string can't be changed where it is already stored.
- Work around = suppose we want to update `s[3] = p`. Instead we can do this:

```
s = s[0:3] + "p!"
```

- Note that this is a new s, this is not the old s.
- String are _immutable_. 
- Lists are _mutable_.

## Lists

- These are sequence of values as well, but do not have a uniform type. Means, it can contain anything, from number to text, etc. (At least python allows it).
- _Lists are mutable_.
- It can also be sliced and functions like len() is used here. 
- Note that for str, both single position and slice returns string. For lists, single position returns a value, slice returns a list.
- Lists can contain other lists - nesting. It can also contain other dictionaries, etc. It can also be sliced using codes like `nested[2][1][0]`.
- Updating list:
	- `nested[1] = 10`. This will add a item 10 at position 1. And adjust the rest of list accordingly. Note that this code will drop nothing. Similar can be achieved in nested lists as well.

```
x = 5
y = x
x = 7
print(y)
```
>>5

- Why? In python does assignment copy the value or does both of them points towards the same value.
- _For immutable values, assignment makes a fresh copy of values_. So, in case of str, float, int, etc. this will happen. So, here updating one value will not have no effect on other as we are just copying the value.
- _For mutable values, assignment does not makes a fresh copy. It points to same location_. So, say we assign list2 = list1, can we make a change on list1, list2 is changed as well.

- Copying list:
	- A slice creates a new sublist from an old one.
	- We can copy using `lis2 = lis2[:]`.
- Digression on equality: Lists can have same value but could be fairly different things (objects) from each other. 
```
lis1 = [1,2,3]
lis2 = [1,2,3]
lis3 = lis2


lis1 = lis2 >> True
lis2 = lis3 >> True

lis2 is lis3 >> True
lis1 is lis2 >> True
```

	- So, is is used to check if 2 things are same object in python (meaning poiting to same place.)

- Concatenation: `lis3 = lis2 + lis1` this will combine 2 lists. + produces a new list. So, note that if we update a preexisting list to a new list, and we have another list pointing towards it, they both will break (they will be decoupled) and it will not point to same list. For e.g.

```
lis1 = [2,4,6]
lis2 = lis1

lis1 = lis1 + [9]
```

	- Now, lis2 will be pointing to original list and lis1 will be updated due to concatenation.