# Control flow

- Interpreter executes statements from top to bottom. Functions are jut "digested" for future use. Actual computation starts from statement.
- Control flow - determines order in which statements are executed.
- Conditional Execution: This is written using `if condtiton:` 
	- Indentation is important, statements that will be governed by this if, should be on same level. 
	- We can also optionally use `else:`
	- If and else should be on same indentation level.

> Shortcuts for condition:
> 	0 is treated as false.
> 	"" , [] is treated as false.
> 	Everything else is True (from non empty list to string to any non 0 number).

So, we can write `if m%n != 0:` as `if m%n:`. As, non 0 value is True anyways.

- Multiway branching: elif.
	- This is basically combination of else followed immediately by if. 
- Loops: used for repeated action.
```
for i in [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]:
	y = y * i
```

 - range(0, n) can be used too for some range. It generated sequence from 0, 1, 2, ... , n-1.
 - range(i, j) generated from i, i+1, ... , j-1. 
 - Often, we don't know number of repetition. in such cases use while loop. This repeats body if condition meets. After each iteration, condition is checked again.

# Functions

```
def f(a,b,c):
	statement 1
	statement 2
	.
	.
	.
	return(v)
```

- Function name, arguments.
- Body is indented.
- return statement exists and returns  a value. 

- When we call a function, assignment happens to argument variables. Since this is a assignment, it behaves very similar to normal assignment.
- So: Mutable are shared, non mutable are made a copy of. 
- Immutable values will not be affected by calling function.
- Mutable values will be affected.
- Side effect: in function. If the value is mutable, it will affect value in other part of program. If it is immutable, it will not affect value and so program.

> Read this more on chatgpt.

- Function may have no return values in some cases.
- *Names with a function have local scope.* Means a variable inside a function is disjoint from variable name outside of function.
- A function must be defined before it's called. All function should be defined at start of program.
- A function can call it self: recursion.

# Example

- Boundary condition should be checked while looking for factors.
- It's often a good idea to write a simple approach to solve a problem in coding, see if it's working and then later build different sub functions to achieve the same. It will help to optimize and maintain the code.

```
def nprimes(n):
	(count, i , iplist) = (0, 1, [])
	while (count < n):
		if isrpime(i):
			(count, plist) = (count + 1 , plist + [i])
		i = i + 1
		return (plist)
```
(Run the above to check)

- We can use while to simulate for.
- 2 ways to use a for loop, one is using range(), second is for n in l: stement
```
n = i
while n<j:
	statement
	n = n+1
```

```
i = 0
while i <len(l):
	n = l[i]
	i = i+1
```

- But, it is not nice and for should be used when required.
