# Range()

- range() produces sequence of values, from i to j-1.
- It can be range(i,j) and range(i,j,k).
- range(i,j,-k) - produces i, i-1, .... , j+1. (here i>j).
- The idea is that this will reach as close to j without crossing it.
- This design choice is made beacuse we often use codes like - 
```
range(0 , len(l))
```

- This design choice makes it easier to handle lists.
- In python 2, range was a list, in python 3 range is not a list. It can't be directly manipulated as a list.
- list() converts values in list, can be used to convert range() generated sequence into list. str() is used to convert into string. int() is used to convert num string into integer value.

# Manipulating Lists

- Lists are mutable. So when we make a copy, of say list1 = list2, both will simply point to same value address. Any changes to say list2 will change in list1 as well.
- Using + in list appends list. But note that using + changes the list and creates new list in case of copy elements. So if we update list 1 using + (concatenation), list 2 will have no effect because concatenation created new list.
- Adding an element in list, in place:
```
list1.append(12)
```

```
list1.extend(list2)
```

- ```list1.remove(x)``` removes first occurrence of x, if x is not there, then it will throw an error.
- We can assign values to slice in list:

```
list1 = [2,3,8,9]
list2 = list1
list1[2:] = [5,4]

list1
>>> [2,3,5,4]
```

- Both list1 and list2 will have same values, i.e. slice replacement happens in place.
- Python allows to both expand and shrink a slice.
- x in l returns True if x exists in l.
- Can be used like this:

```
if x in l:
	l.remove(x)
```

```
while x in l:
	l.remove(x)
```

 - l.reverse(), l.sort(), l.index(x): finds leftmost position of x in l, but it will give error if there is no x in list (if can be used to check to avoid error), l.rindex(x) : finds right most position of x.
 - Many more exists in Python documentation.

> A name can not be used before it is assigned a value. We can always initialize an empty value, list, etc.
